
The brain is a black box, its operations hidden and dark.  Through science we
analyze it and open its mechanism to the light; through disputation arenas and
government competition we replace the brain with openly designed decision
mechanisms.  The brain is not trustworthy, which is why we have moved away
from monarchies; governments are not trustworthy, which is why we have moved
away from traditional land-based countries.  We started as a community of
rationalists on a ship with no home port, headed by rationalism masters,
Senseis, as we half-jokingly called them.  We grew into a loose-knit network
of sea platforms, exporting knowledge and culture, importing food and physical
necessities.

Our vital mistake was to forget that power begets more power.  And to forget
that conflict inevitably blossoms when a new power begins to rise just enough
to potentially challenge an old power.

All it took was the most powerful land-based country to get an egotistical
head of state, in a travesty of disputation arenas called an "election".

--

The tension between government and individual can be seen, writ large enough
to see, in the tension between governmental environmentalism and corporate
interest.

Each sea platform inevitably pollutes; the question is how much pollution is
acceptable.  In a continuously flowing and changing medium, where does one
individual's rights end and another's begin?

It is this insight that reveals that government is not some faceless entity
that serves only to consume resources by taxation.  Instead, it is the proxy
for each and every other individual -- each individual who is not the
individual being taxed.  Government does not fail by existing; it fails
solely if it fails to uphold the interests of those it represents.

--

R1 - Stable government, maintenance version
- Has Seedling concept (teenagers at the cusp of adulthood (15-16)
  are put on a cruise ship (built by R1 and R2) to learn more and
  experience life in other governments of Sea State, and to find
  their niche)
R2 - Unstable government, mainline development
- Based on R1 laws

Dunbarites - Stable government
- Sea platforms split upon reaching 150 individuals (Dunbar's number)

--

Strength through diversity
Diversity through tolerance
Tolerance through understanding
Understanding through rationality

--

Plot threads:

1.  Seedlings
- This year's seedlings, living in the cruise ship
2.  Gardeners
- The two adults guiding the seedlings, on their own
  homeboats, accompanying the seedling cruise ship
3.  Spymaster
- A counterintelligence operative who has just caught
  two spies who have infiltrated Sea State.
4.  Spy
- One of the two spies (the technolibertarian one)
  caught by the Spymaster.

--

(The stuff in this section of notes is CC-BY-NC-SA 3.0 Unported by
TV Tropes Foundation, LLC)

Hero's Journey:

1.  Call to Adventure
2.  Supernatural Aid
3.  Threshold Guardian
4.  Threshold
5.  Helper      \
6.  Mentor       |--- Challenges
7.  Temptation  /
8.  Revelation
    - Abyss
    - Death and Rebirth
9.  Transformation
10.  Atonement
11.  Return

1->3, 11: KNOWN
4->10: UNKNOWN

Three Stages:

1.  Departure: the Hero leaves the familiar world behind.
2.  Initiation: the Hero learns to navigate the unfamiliar world of adventure.
3.  Return: the Hero returns to the familiar world.

More elaborate taxonomy:

1.  Miraculous or unusual circumstances around the Hero's conception or birth.
    - The Chosen One
    - Less common in modern stories which tend to emphasize that anyone could
      be The Chosen One.
2.  Begins in the ordinary world of the Hero's hometown, in one of the
    following forms:
    - Peacful Kingdom (Hero must save the world from impending doom)
    - The Wasteland (Hero must restore the world)
    - Suburbia (depends)
3.  Hero may be dissatisfied with the ordinary, express desire for adventure.
    - Optional
4.  The Herald brings a Call to Adventure.
5.  The Hero decides how to answer the call:
    - Refusal of the Call.  More common in classic stories.  The Call will
      often try again because The Call Knows Where You Live.  Can't Stay
      Normal and Resigned to the Call are special cases of call refusal.
    - Jumped at the Call, sometimes even in the face of Adventure Rebuff.
      More common in modern stories.
6.  Frequently the first step on the journey is receiving some kind of
    magical tchotchke (It May Help You On Your Quest) or other Supernatural
    Aid.
    - The One Ring in Lord of the Rings, for example.
7.  Crossing the First Threshold: The Hero must make a conscious, willing
    decision to embark on the adventure and leave the known world behind.
    This is the First Threshold.  The Hero may have to defeat Threshold
    Guardians, who are not necessarily adversarial but do test the Hero's
    resolve.
8.  The Land of Adventure: the Hero enters a strange, dreamlike realm, where
    logic is topsy-turvy and the "rules" are markedly different from the
    ordinary world.
9.  The Belly of the Whale represents a symbolic death for the Hero: the
    Hero is defeated and killed, his flesh scattered, ready to be reborn
    and emerge as a new person.
10.  Road of Trials: the path out of the Belly of the Whale.  Usually the meat
    of the story.  Different kinds of tests.  Stops along the way include:
    - The Shapeshifter: someone you don't trust but nonetheless need for his
      or her help/information
    - The Goddess: Hero's Muse.  The Hero's motivation for pursuing the quest
      derives from his regard for some sort of idealized woman.  She is a
      goddess, a saint, a queen, a princess, or something similar.  Generally,
      she is very pure, sometimes to the point of being unapproachable.  If
      she is unmarried, she is chaste.  The lady can be the one who gives the
      hero his quest; he then departs to complete it before returning to her.
      Alternately, she flits in and out of the hero's path, reminding him of
      her presence but staying out of reach.  Occasionally, she is at his side
      all along, serving as a reminder of what he is striving for and
      inspiring him to persevere.  In all situations, she often dispenses
      advice to the hero, althought that advice can be rather cryptic.
    - The Temptress: The Vamp.  The beauty who uses her feminine wiles to
      undermine a moral and upright man, for evil purposes.  Sexy and Evil, a
      liar and sneak, and uses the good guy's sympathy against him, often with
      a sob story about her mother and some hospital bills or a Wounded
      Gazelle gambit.  She is rotten to the core, and will never be swayed
      from the path of darkness by love.
    - Atonement With the Father: "Well Done, Son!" Guy.  What The Hero really
      wants is for this *one* guy to acknowledge him.  Most often, that *one*
      guy is his emotionally distant father, though it can also be The Ace,
      The Obi-Wan, an Aloof Big Brother or even the Always Someone Better
      individual, usually an old friend of the hero.  In the end, one of two
      things happens.  Rarely, the "Well Done, Son!" Guy will turn out to have
      some kind of massive character flaw (Broken Pedestal), and the Hero will
      realize that it's been a mistake to weigh his opinion so highly, and
      then Calling the Old Man Out.  Most of the time, though, everything
      comes to a head when the "Well Done, Son!" Guy finally asks the Hero why
      he's going to such ridiculous ends.  The Hero fesses up, and the "Well
      Done, Son!" Guy explains that he's respected The Hero all along, and
      assumed The Hero already knew (You Didn't Ask).
    - A Leave Your Quest Test: The Hero will be given the chance to lay down
      their Sword of Plot Advancement and leave the fight.
11.  Night Sea Voyage: The Hero must sneak into the Big Bad's Elaborate
     Underground Base and retrieve something or someone.  Often involves night
     and water, hence the name.
12.  Time out just before the big battle: The Heroes gather around a campfire
     and prepare for the battle, tell stories, confess their feelings,
     etc.  It reminds them of what's at stake, and serves as a breather after
     all the action of the Road of Trials.
13.  Apotheosis / Fight against the Big Bad / Ultimate Boon.  These are
     typically very closely related, often intertwined.
     - Apotheosis: The Hero comes to view the world in a new and radically
       different way, either because of a critical breakthrough he's made or
       some crucial information he's uncovered.  If it is something to do with
       himself then this is a good time for I Am Who?.
     - Fight against the Big Bad: The Hero confronts the Big Bad in a typical
       David versus Goliath fashion: He is usually called upon to sacrifice
       himself or something/someone important to him.  Friend or Idol Decision
       is a common scenario.  Note that *asked* is the key word here -- it's
       usually enough that the Hero be willing to sacrifice something without
       actually having to do it.
     - Ultimate Boon: getting the reward the hero's been chasing all this
       time, often but not always a MacGuffin.
14.  Refusal of the Return: At this point in the story, the Hero has mastered
     the strange world he was thrust into.  He probably has earned a permanent
     place here, if he wants it.  He may even want to stay, but usually there
     are forces at work that propel him home.
15.  The Return: Also called the Magic Flight.  The Hero now has the boon and
     high-tails it away, with the villain or his forces in hot pursuit; while
     they engage in a battle of wits and magic (especially shapeshifting)
     during the chase (See: Celtic story of Taliesin's escape from Cerridwen
     for a textbook example of this).  The Hero's escape may not require
     actual magic, but *will* require all of the new skills he's learned
     (Final Exam Finale) and new allies he's made.
16.  Crossing the Return Threshold: Sometimes a flight against the forces of
     the Muggle world, which The Hero wins thanks to help from his Muggle
     allies.
17.  Freedom to Live: The Hero grants the boon to his people.

--

Bitcoin mining capacity (2013):

Current capacity (2013): 60 THash/s
Avalon ASIC capacity (2013): 65GHash/s
Cost of 923 Avalons: 1.2M$ (Capacity to take over the bitcoin network,
does not include power, internet connection, support equipment, etc.)

--

Micromort - unit of risk (1-in-a-million chance of death)

--

In May 2, 2012, Gavin Andresed mentioned a method of protecting against
"the 51% attack".

http://gavintech.blogspot.co.uk/2012/05/neutralizing-51-attack.html
https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=78403.0

The exact method of protection is to include the sum of the priorities
of the transactions in the blocks.

--

Bitcoin miner's agreement (world concept)

Miners implicitly agree not to utilize their full hashing power, but
only a fragment of it, since otherwise their electricity consumption
increases too much.  However, in the event of a 51% attack, they can
all quickly increase their hashing power to repel the attack.

This means that an external attacker needs to consider that the full
hashing power of the network is larger than the perceived hashing
power.

--

Physical bitcoins:

https://www.casascius.com/

Excerpts:

฿25 Casascius Coin: This brilliant coin is electroplated with real
gold.  It's sure to get attention, or at least to take a chat about
cryptocurrency out of the abstract and into the aesthetically
pleasing.  Each coin is about 1.75inch (44.5mm) in diameter, 2.9mm
thick, and weighs about 1.2 ounces.  Makes a great savings gift for
someone special. (2011 version - will not be remade - for sale while
supply lasts) 

-

How they work: The "private key" is on a card embedded inside the
coin and is protected by a tamper-evident hologram.  The hologram
leaves behind a honeycomb pattern if it is peeled. If the hologram
is intact, the bitcoin is good. If you have purchased a 2-factor
item, the private key is encrypted and will need to be decrypted
using your original preselected passphrase before you can redeem
the funds.

The 8-character code you see on the outside of the coin is the
first eight characters of the Bitcoin address assigned specifically
to that coin.  You can verify the coin's balance on Block Explorer.
There is a mathematical relationship between the Bitcoin address
and the private key inside the coin. The digital bitcoin is actually
located on the public "block chain" stored on the internet, but it
is completely inaccessible to anyone unless the private key from the
coin is loaded into a Bitcoin wallet.

To recover the digital bitcoins, there are several ways to convert
the embedded code back into a digital bitcoin so it can be spent
over the internet.  Most importantly, none of the methods relies on
me or any other central issuer, due to Bitcoin's completely
decentralized design.  The embedded private key code is everything a
Bitcoin client needs to find and claim the digital Bitcoins from the
peer-to-peer network. For example, you can enter (or "import") your
coin's private key code directly into Bitcoin clients such as
Armory, Blockchain.info, or directly into Mt. Gox as a deposit
method.  (Casascius coins use the "minikey" private key format, and
the main Bitcoin.org client does not yet support redeeming
minikeys.)

-

From the blog:

I have been informed that someone was successfully able to compromise
the hologram on a Casascius Coin this afternoon at Def Con 21 in Las
Vegas. Having been a regular attendee of Def Con for some time now, I
figured it was a matter of time before I’d have the honor of being a
subject of the “Hardware Hacking Village / Tamper Evident” section
they have there.

I had a chance to speak with that person today, who goes by Stits
(twitter: @stits) and he shared with me the process he went through.
It was pretty intriguing, in a nutshell he says he used a particular
solvent and method of application, and in the process, left a very
minimal amount of visible damage to the hologram.

--

Chernoff Face

Chernoff faces are representations of multivariate data, using
human faces.  The idea is that the brain has builtin circuits for
classifying and recognizing faces.

--

Sweden needs more trash, because it has turned all it's got into
energy.

In the future: Sweden is a FREE ELECTRICITY state with lower tax
rates, due to making it their business to import (and get paid for
importing) trash.  Electricity is produced by burning the trash.
The ash gets exported back to the source country.
